Break Baker. Exceedingly rough and uncourteous. Not disposed to hear on the subject of religion
Cooks for the sick. Professes to be turned to God. Seems to possess appropriate dispositions, reads and prays. Is ignorant.
Seems perfectly satisfied that he has been a recipient of theft. Spirit. Is evidently a friend in principle, seems happy. Suppose is partially insane. Since find his mind broken, laboring under a species of mental imbecility. Detained by order of the Marshall for further action on charge.
Thinks he knows something of religion. Very loquacious but unsatisfactory.
Young man of tolerably good mind and information, does not directly profess religion but speaks somewhat intelligently respecting it, and as if devious to produce an impression, that he is a Christian. There seems a want of ingenuousness and an evident uneasiness under the gaze of the person speaking.
Seems like an old convict and is insensible. No wish to have intercourse with me on religious subjects.
Exceedingly excited, enrage at the judge and threatened revenge.  [[Sevore]] if knife or pistol could be had, would revenge his wrongs upon his prosecutor also had sold himself to the Devil and want to rush on to hell for revenge ƒ?? did not wish to hear of religion.
Old convict. Boldly avows Atheism and considers it base to abandon principles taught by his father. Seemed affected in some measure, promised to consider. Remained hardened in Atheism.
A man of pretty good mind, but cooly and desperately determined to evil because of this hopelessness  of retrieving character.
Has some correct views of religion, conducts well feels very deeply for having been the instrument of his wifes death. Prays and reads [[serip]] daily, yet is not divinely enlightened. Hopes to meet with her in heaven, he was driven away in her wickedness.
Asserts his entire innocence, no sense of his guilt and danger. No religious impressions.
Professed to hope in the mercy of God through our L.J.C. Professes very great tenderness of feeling and great share of benevolence. Has not yet ventured to converse with me in direct terms upon religion only in generals. Mistaken in one point respecting the character.
Mind evidently crushed and broken. Supposes he will never be permitted to come forth out of prison. Rejects the gospel, will not converse of religion. 
Expressing a firm determina[tion] to abandon every vicious course, has not exp[ressed] religion, but denies to be governed henceforthƒ?? by the fear of God. Discharged. Cust remitted. Pursuing his old course.
Professes religion. Is quite an intelligent and venerable looking man, has been judge of a county court. Converses well on religious subjects but seems not altogether at ease when any questions are proposed respecting himself. Profession of religion evidently false.
Very mild and pleasant in behavior but not disposed to converse upon religion. Destroying himself.
Works in mill house. Professes conversion and gives very hopeful evidence of sincerity. Considerable humility, an anxious devise for scriptural knowledge.
Confesses his crimes. Seems despairing by impressed with a sense of his sins. Has long sought mercy through Jesus, as his only hope, but cannot come to him or trust in him. Does not know why or how, believes [[x I]] is able if willing but despairs of mercy.
Old convict, hopes to be reformed but not very sanguine. 
Irish catholic. Deranged
At my first visit. Hardened, afterward disposed to listen, evincing a softened disposition but no religion but is determined to reform and attend to religion
An infidel perfectly hardened and resolved to pursue his vocation. 2nd vis[it] altogether different. Profess to believe denied to feel infl[uence] of truth and be converted. Exceedingly bitter ag[ainst] his brother 348 who led him into crime, means to abandon all his connections, go far west and reform.  
Seems willing to receive religious instruction, appears to know the nature of true religion and desirous to feel its influence, but does not pray any longer, his effort ineffectual
Cooks for prison. Professes a change of heart and behavior in all respects well.
A very trusty prisoner and faithful servant. Civil and obliging [[etc]] but no religious influence on his mind, conducts well in hope of pardon from Governor, was pardoned once from Walnut St.
Old convict. Seemed to have his feelings a little awakened but not very hopeful.
Makes pretenses to religious experience but palpably deceptive. Has since confessed he was only hypocritically pretending and seems filled with a diabolical spirit.
Professes to be a truly penitent and converted man. But has been unfaithful in the recital of his crime, in other respects, his deportment, apparently correspond with his profession.
Native of Philadelphia. Enticed by boys to steal at the age of 13, has been a professor of religion ignorant of its first principles. Fancies various persons have attempted to poison him. Appears sane, but not perfectly.
Gives perhaps the clearest evidence of being possessed of a gracious spirit, of any other yet found in the penitentiary. 
A very ingenious man, professes to be the subject of grace, conversant with scripture and doctrine of grace. Mind of great native strength, strong perceptive intellect. Anxious to improve it by study.
Singular term of mind. Perhaps demented. Born with a caul, sees and knows what others cannot. Knows nothing of G[od]
Ingenious, cunning, skeptical, and hopeless
Seems deeply affected by his wretched condition, as a prisoner, and evidently concerned for the eternal welfare of his soul, prays constantly. Keeper thinks him sincere. Octo/1839 I have a strong hope that this poor old man, in all his ignorance, has found peace in believing. Too old to learn.
Step son to 395. Endeavors to cast the blame on his father and 397. Not hopeful at present.
Convicted with 395 and 396. Seems mild and subdued. Criminates his companions, not very sincere I apprehend. Have some reason to retract that last opinion. Hope this man is effectually reformed.
House carpenter formerly in Walnut St. somewhat intelligent, seems serious in his design to reform and feels the importance of a timely regard for the interests of his soul. No profession of a change of heart but a deep and thorough conviction of reform of all bad habits.
Very singular character. Assured of being a Christian. Deeply versed in scripture and very felicitous in applying it to the experience of the Christian. Considerable hope that he may prove a brand plucked from the fire.
Professes conversion, appears to possess a quiet and humble spirit, if sincere. Confesses having been addicted to Onan. Sod. Bestiality.
Native of Philadelphia. Catholic, disposed to laugh at religious truths. Altogether is light minded, seems to disregard confinement.
Rejects religion. Skeptical. Indifferent. Palette on nose somewhat injured affects his speech. Seems resolved never to enter a prison again, health very bad, has been much in the infirmary. Means to return to his friends in New York.
Seems very affable and mild, but regards as vain and profitless the attempt to get religion in prison.
Professes to be deeply affected with the utter sinfulness of his nature. Expresses hope of being interested in the Lord Jesus. Subdued but unhappy. Does not hope or expect to outlive his sentence.
Has repeatedly sought religion in vain and concludes it is not for him. Several times has been powerfully excited and roused hoped he had obtained mercy, but in a few days or weeks found this hope deceived.
Brought up in the family of John McKnight Presbyterian minister in Country, now in Philadelphia. Who took great pain to make right impress on his mind, but in vain, very thoughtless and unconcerned.
Lured from virtue in early life. Seems very sensible of her past guilt and shame, professes to be penitent and resolved with the assistance of God to walk circumspectly in future. Serious and prayerful apparently. Subsequently confesses she has no proper feelings in regard to her soul.
Demented, yet talks on religious subjects as though she were sane
Ignorant and stupid, no disposition to repent, says the Lords prayer
Attempted to poison the gentleman and lady with whom she lived. Acknowledges her crime but is not in the slightest measure affected by the guilt of it. Seems to be without human sensibilities.
Irish catholic. Seems hardened against religious instruction.
A slave who ran away from Maryland, was drunk when the crime was committed. Thinks his confinement will promote the welfare of his soul.
Stammers in speech. Cannot yet read. No religious concern whatever.
Native New Jersey. From 6 Block now sick. Has no hope in Christ, does not pray, does not feel much concerned, although apparently drawing near to death.
Irish Catholic. Denied the charge, has no relish for serious and profitable conversation.
Professes to have true repentance and joy and peace in believing in Christianity; talks like one possessed of more light than is common to Catholic, yet Catholic inveterately attached to Popery.
Appears to have serious impression and a desire to return to God.
Makes awkward pretenses to religious impression. But I fear deceptive. Was once in Sing Sing for life ƒ?? crime robbery- was pardoned after 7 years.
Seems to have no proper concern for the welfare of his soul, but says he does as well as he can.
Now in the infirmary and demented this vicious indulgence, has tried to impose on his keepers and others as a Christian by committing portions of scripture and repeating them.
Professed Atheist, scoffs most impudently at religion, vain, ignorant and hardened.
Is sensible of the need of repentance, has read and prayed much. Hopes he is reformed, is not converted, says all that he has done is as nothing so far as regards to the salvation of his soul.
Very ignorant and stupid, evidently sinking into idiocy. Understands but little English, seems to know nothing.
Seems perfectly indifferent to the guilt connected with her crime and prepared to repeat it. Not sorry for what she has done.
Deeply afflicted by confinement and separation from his family. Weeps for having shed blood even in self-defense. No true sense of the evil of sin.
Professes to be the subject of regeneration. Gives some evidence of spiritual illumination.
Says he is prepared for heaven, is obviously ignorant of Christ the living way.
A serious minded young man of whose reform there is hope, and some hope of his ultimate conversion.
A young man whose whole life has been a series of wretchedness: cast out from home at 18 mos and driven into series of sorrow and vice and almost every vile association and evil practice, his conscious seems terribly awakened, has been anxious for religious instruction and yes is. Hopes he has given himself unreservedly to God.
Very careless and bold approaching to insolence. Apologized. Not very promising. June 4 Infirmary totally silent ƒ?? Demented.
Apparently indifferent and hardened. Not so much as I supposed in prospect of liberty. Feels grateful for past good advice and hopes to profit by it. Makes no profession of religious feeling ƒ?? but hopes to be preserved in future.
Very ignorant, seems heartily disposed to reform.
Has made some effort to obtain religion and now gives it up as a hopeless attempt.
Hopes he is reformed, but has no hope of obtaining religion in prison. Not the slightest disposition to reform.
Black, very large frame, hardened against religious instruction. Got to feel rather more inclined to hear before I left him.
Does not appear to have had his attention excited to the interests of his soul, hope to do better hereafter.
Has professed to enjoy religion since he came to Prison. Was deeply and for a long time oppressed with the [[burdese ]] obtained a joyful hope. Relapsed into sin, lost all his enjoyment. Has kept from that sin more than a year, but has never regained his former comfort. Is very much disturbed in his mind, cannot think he was deceived, yet can enjoy no hope.
Nurses the sick in the infirmary. Thinks he is cured of the vice of stealing, but feels no disposition to attend to religion.
Hardened and hopeless, bitter spirit against against all religion but popery and treats everything American with contempt.
Skeptical. Somewhat intelligent, disputes the truth of all religion, but is gentlemanly in his deportment.
Seems unacquainted with the guilt of sin, but heard with some interest and solemnity what I said, is sick of a disease which may prove fatal.
An old convict mind sometimes slightly impressed with the certainty of death and judgment but hopeless of change. Poverty and want of employment forces him to steal. Has been to Walnut St. prison repeatedly.
Very ingenious in workmanship and evidently indifferent on subject of religion. Intemperance alone causes this mad to steal. He is a good workman and has his acquisitiveness excited by ardent spirit.
Hopes he is reformed, but dares not pretend to be converted. Has been a soldier in U.S.A. in the far West, appears not hopeful. Desired his bible and took it with him.
Says he came down the Susquehanna on a raft, fell into bad company in a house of ill fame, one or two of whom committed the crime for which he suffers. Knew nothing of them, says he is justly punished for such vile association, hope it will make him careful in future. No sense of religion.
Of a respectable family in this city, but of depraved habits from early life. Once a midshipman in U.S.N. active and intelligent mind and very ingenious. Professes to be a converted man, talks fluently and well on the subject of religion, but does not evince its moral influence.
Possesses a mind highly inquisitive in relation to religion, is desirous to experience its transforming power. Unable to comprehend how it is that repentance is necessary in order to pardon, yet nothing meritorious in repentance. Fond of quibble and disputation of showing his talent [[etc]]
Says she is glad of being in prison, is satisfied, has no wish to leave it. It has snatched her from the vortex of win, will never enter such associations as formerly. Reads. Prays. (not taught of G[od])
A curious person, quite sure that he is converted and that he is a very religious man. Quite mistaken in his impressions.
Seems to have had religious impressions and to have obtained some correct knowledge of religion, but yet know not God. On Sunday Nov. 25th, 1838 Mr Bradfords sermon in the 4th block, had a powerfully awakening effect upon his mind. Overwhelmed with a sense of sin, he cried out.  Visited and found him on his sick bed, trembling weeping and praying. Hope the Lord is preparing him for the change which seems hastening on (Dec 2) See account of him in journal.
Professes repentance. Given very little evidence of being acquainted with his own heart and with god. In every respect unsatisfactory.
J. Catholic. Very bad temper exceedingly irritated as soon as he saw me approach him to converse on the subject of religion. Said he had his bible to direct him, interprets for himself and wishes no one to interfere with him, admonished him gently not to judge himself unworthy of eternal life and left him a little softened.
[[no other notes]]
Perfectly hardened, will not converse at all on any subject
Professes to have had deep conviction of the evil of sin which have resulted in conversion. Seems to act too much to be sincere. Evidently knows nothing of religion. Felt deeply and bitterly today on subject of his family [[etc]] Overacts.
Has been for some months under a deep concern for his soul. Says he lived in good repute in Huntington until the death of his wife and some children, then gave up to almost every species of evil kidness. Now seems intensely curious to learn if one. So old in sin and so vile and ignorant may hope to obtain pardon and salvation. Abstains from animal food entirely, from conscientious motives.
Seems serious and somewhat hopeful. Have had evidence of his hypocrisy and can therefore have to further confidence in him
Seems very anxious for literary and religious instruction, professes to enjoy some hope in the merits of Christ.
Has been brutally treated and abused from childhood cheated by all for whom he worked, could never obtain reduss. Seems utterly void of common sense.
Indulging in Onan. Not anxious on account of his soul. Constantly demented or extremely wicked. Savage and murderous disposition.
From Hartford Connecticut, ignorant but shrewd, is or affect to be skeptical, the thoughts of eternal realities evidently have not lost their power in his mind, elicits the opposition of the heart.
Hopeful enquirer. Second visit entered at length into a detail of religious exercises, which appear very deep and genuine, but shew the soul strongly striving against Gods sovereignty.  And verging toward despair. I trust God is showing him the enmity of his heart.
A hardened infidel, extremely ignorant yet exceedingly vain, thinks himself possessed of great acuteness and extensive knowledge.
The son of pious parents, is very serious and desirous of religious instruction. Once sought the Lord but turned away and as a consequence is now in prison.


The companion of Sprogel. Determined to reform confesses his life has been a scene of wretched dissipation, is convinced thoroughly of the extreme folly will not confess his guilt, had heard of the death of Boon and was evidently anxious to learn whether he had made confession. Seems to hope for pardon, no sense of sin, nor fear for its desert.
Apparently hardened against the influence f religious instruction. Has striven hard to obtain religion, is resolved to make it the business of his whole future life.
Professed conversion
Professes to be radically changed and to have a good hope through grace. Seems to be deeply affected when religion is the theme. Do not feel perfectly satisfied with him. Have more hope from subsequent conversations. His mind is subject to constant and distressing fluctuations and in some of those changes there are very hopeful indications. Manifests deep solicitude for the spiritual interests of his wife who is a licentious woman.
Feels certain that he is reformed, but remains alienated from God.
Quite careless and indifferent
Totally dark yet supposed himself trusting in Christ. Willing to hear and to be instructed
Would fain appear to be innocent, seems to be a hopeless case
Indifferent to religious subjects. In the infirmary, consumption arising from scrubbing the cell. Took a cold
Son of respectable parents and formerly of very dissipated habits. Professes to be turned to God and hopes to spend the remainder of his days in promoting the salvation of poor sinners like himself, some hopeful appearances, with some alloy. Subsequently found himself deceived in his impressions, yet afterwards supposed that he was truly changed by the grace of God (still doubtful)
Very ignorant. Did not read or write when he entered is leaving now and reads very little. Anxious to learn and professes a desire to know the way of salvation. Has a foolish notion of Conjuration.
German reformed. Proud of his ingenuity as a workman, has discovered perpetual motion and wishes to beat liberty to demonstrate, not disposed to converse of religion, has not made the important discovery that he is lost and needs a savior.
Nothing at all hopeful in him. Seems to have been insane from the first of my acquaintance 
Insensible and careless, indifferent to religion
Has had a deep sense of his wretched and ruined condition by reason of sin and almost driven to despair. The exhibition of gospel truth seemed to afford consolation, but so as to produce a false peace. Needs to have a deeper insight into his heart.
Very quiet and well disposed, will reform. Does not feel enough in relation to his lost condition.
Acting as servant in front building, professes to be reformed and to possess a hope of conversion. Has been uniformly good prisoner, his deportment unexceptionable, very smart and attentive to business.
Appears to know something about religion but does not feel its power. Parents living. Mothing Baptist. Subsequently in the infirmary professes a clear and confidant hope of salvation through the merits of Christ. Have a sufficient reason for his past taciturnity and added I have come up here to do and the Lord is good and so precious to me. I can be silent no longer
Careless and apparently hopeless
Has greatly endangered his life by secret vice in great distress on account of it and fears it will kill him. Prays to God for help subsequently hopes he has conquered. Left a wife in Maryland ƒ?? a slave = wants to know if he can return
Works in the Dye House, professes entire innocence. Seems civil and in all respects an orderly and well behaved man. But has no impressions of a serious kind. Says the enmity of others has put him in here.
Seems confident that he is reformed and denies to serve God, his prayers and efforts evidently misdirected
Accuses his brother of being the cause of the theft, then taking the money and having him. Some [[pictences]] to religious impressions and solicitude for his brother.
Appears to be somewhat serious, but cannot obtain much information from him. Dec. 10 1839 Deeply anxious for salvation, gloomy and fearful he will never receive it. Entirely satisfactory.
Professes to have experienced religion in prison. Is ignorant altogether of its nature and power
Works in the dye house appears to be a sensible and serious man. Means to do well here after but alas knows not the way of life through Christ Jesus. Too much dependence orthodoxy of creed no proper sense of the necessity of practical religion
Possesses some enlightened views of religion believe that the heart must be renewed by the Holy Spirit. Yet indifferent to his own salvation and decidedly a catholic.
Lived in adulterous intercourse with the wife of his friend while that friend was in England. Driven from the house by the enraged husband took money intrusted to him by the wife, in revenge Professes to be convicted
Very ignorant and no religious feeling
Professes to be converted. This young man appears to be constantly in a most happy state of mind. Full of exulting gratitude to God he certainly appears to rejoice in his confinement.
Has learned from the Bible, the necessity of religion, cannot understand the nature of repentance; wishes to know if he turns from sin and tried to serve God, whether that will not secure salvation.
Professes to be convinced of sin and anxious to obtain mercy from God, does not profess to enjoy a hope of salvation, but prays earnestly for it. Mr Coxsey says he prays much and his deportment is consistent with his prayers.
Appears to be intemperate, hardened, and hopeless
No just sense of religion, denies his guilt
A lawyer, magistrate and recorder of [[blank]] says he blesses God for his confinement, however painful and disgraceful. It has been life to his soul, would probably have never known what regeneration means, but for his Bible, affliction and solitude with some curious notions, seems to have correct views and such dispositions as become the Christian character.
Has been a Universalist, admits now there is no foundation for it in the bible. Has no present desire to attend to the claims of religion. Insists he is pardoned and unjustly detained.
Was in Walnut St., greatly depressed by confinement, believes the scrip, necessity of repentance but will not talk much. Cannot read
Careless and somewhat impatient. Discover no hopeful appearances, very conceited vain [[etc]]
Somewhat disposed to converse on moral and religious subjects, but not deeply interested.
A spirit of revenge against society, forbids present hope
Very ignorant and apparently stupid, great insensibility to the interests of the soul.
No proper sense of the evil of sin. Very pleasant and affable
Stammers greatly. Some religious interest. Strong desire to reform, and apparently deep sense of past guilt.
Cloth presser. An old convict now a thief by profession and expects to live and die in his vocation. No great care on the subject of death. Skeptical, says he cannot read. Skepticism removed ƒ?? but no hope, though he expresses determination to reform.
A younger man and according to his own account a thief from very early in life. Apparently sleeted against all moral and religious considerations.
[[From B Block in infirmary]] Professes to enjoy a hope of acceptance with God through Christ, professes a clear knowledge of religion and evinces a mild, resigned, spirit, a simple and childlike trust in the Lord Jesus.
Was in infirmary suffering from King evil, has felt sin like a heavy load, but it has passed away, without a sense of pardon. Continues to pray. Hopes to reform.
Old convict, means now to abandon his old course, but has no present desire to love and serve God.
Sensible of renovating grace being necessary in order to salvation, but cannot seek it in prison. Thinks he is the greatest of sinners and too great to hope for mercy. His heart is exceedingly proud cannot endure to have anyone hear him pray or know that he feels on the subject of religion. Never said as much before to any one as now to me.
Works in the millhouse very Taciturn canƒ??t or will not converse on religious subjects.
Says that because a convict once, he is now convicted and imprisoned on slight evidence. No disposition to yield to serious thought.
Noted this man in my first visit as born a thief. My impressions fully confirmed by conversation, confessed he always had a strong propensity to steal, has stolen incredibly large sums and squandered it. Is an infidel says he is of very respectable family in this city, friends wealthy.
Affects to be altogether regardless of his present condition and future prospects. Says he has a brother at the South, a Baptist minister.
Ignorant and depraved, his life from youth spent in crime, cannot feel on the subject of religion. Only that it is now too late for him to hope (in Walnut St.)
Seems to be somewhat idiotic or demented knows scarcely anything, wants a spelling book. Says his brother was the means of getting him into prison, gave him a note to pass, which knew not to be bad. Seems incapable of understanding or feeling on the subject of religion.
Believes God has shown him his true condition as a sinner. Has sought and still seeks for pardon and grace, has not not obtained, Father pious Methodist.
A man of infidel principles, a head and face peculiarly formed and expressive of determination and disposition to penetrate into the character of those with whom he converses. Not so well furnished in mind as some suppose. Jan 24- Now in infirmary with I fear consumption exceedingly afraid of the consequences, but struggling to conceal his fears. Pretends he wishes not to hear of religion, but obviously anxious to have me come.
Seems to be in a state of mind to receive instruction, some good indications. Shaking off the shackles of a degrading superstition.
Professes conversion and has very fanciful dreams and I apprehend only dreams that he is converted. Dec 4th/1839- Infirmary Dem Onan
Cleans books in 4 block Professes to be possessed of a good and comfortable hope in Jesus and does afford very encouraging indications
Once kept store in [[blank]]. When in the infirmary, professed repentance, is fond of conversation but his profession of rep seems very doubtful. March 10th 1839 Encouraging evidence has been this day afforded that this man is now convinced of his condition and need of salvation. Altogether different in his manner regards his past impressions as altogether erroneous
Young man says he is resolved to reform but evinces no appearance of religious principle.
Feels sensibly affected for the distress of his widowed mother, seemed willing to hear and thankful for my visit but not sensible of the guilt of his offense.
Charged with stealing wheat with two sons, Joseph now discharged from prison and a boy in House of Refuge, professes a change of heart, anxious for his son, charges the guilt on him, pleads not guilty, is obviously insincere. Having found reason to entertain a better hope of him.
Has thought and read on religious subjects, until nearly deranged or quite, quitted it and found relief in being bust at work, donƒ??t wish to think of religion now.
Regards his confinement as the instrument of his conversion and a great blessing, has enlightened views and seems in many respects a real subject of mercy. Awakened by address of Mr. Bradford Come unto me all ye [[etc]]
Infidel and materialist, ignorant, vain and hardened in sin. Time misspent to talk with him. Hardened, imprinted, unbelieving to the close of his confinement. Exceedingly vain and conceited, yet equally ignorant.
Lastmaker. Professes to rejoice in his confinement as the meads of redeeming him from intemperance and its kindred vices and checking him in his career to ruin to which he says he was rapidly hastening. Is desirous to receive religious instruction the value and necessity of which he feels and strongly denies unnerving and saving grace. No hope of this man. Says he is sure to steal if he gets drunk, but means to avoid that.
Altogether careless and regardless of religion.
Sailor, not influences by religion. Says e is thoroughly satisfied with this prison, is determined not to try it again.
Seems confident that God has wrought effectually in him, turning him from darkness to light, not only from past experience, but from present experience.
Formerly of Burlington New Jersey. Seems interested deeply and thankful for advice and instruction. Subsequently not very hopeful.
Says he has tried to get religion and tried in vain. Has not properly realized that truth, ƒ??Ye must be born again.ƒ?
Not much disposition to attend to the interest of his soul.
Is conscious of her sinful state, reads the bible and other good books, prays, but cannot feel wright, has no experience of divine mercy.
Says his real name is Hopkins. Professes to have been converted in prison, has many surprising manifestations of Gods love and grace and floods of light, opening up to his mind the mysteries of diving truth. Some views expressed are remarkable but he is bolt and punuming, shows more light than love, acts too much, oversteps the modesty of nature.
Very ignorant and apparently stupid. Does not feel very deeply for his eternal welfare yet not utterly without feelings. Says he prays.
One arm ground off by bark mill. Extremely vicious and hopeless, cannot avoid Onan, has no sense of religion. Satisfactory news of reform. See also 772.
Th. Gil. Appears to be very sensible of the evil of his past course. Feels his inability to accomplish anything for his oven salvation. Desired and seeks the influence of the Holy Spirit. Has had slender opportunities of learning, but possesses naturally good intellect. Is now Nov. 8 and Dec. restless and dissatisfied. Heart rebelling against Gods providences and his punishment.
Never stole anything when sober, has drunk very hard the last 8 years.
Has been a wanderer through the states of the South. Has seen the world attend worship in various Churches, does not believe in popery. Believes regeneration necessary but never felt much disposed toward religion at any time.
Greatly depressed by confinement, says it would have been well for him to have attended to his bible in early life, but regards it as hopeless now. May 27th Appears to be dying in despair and horror says thousands and millions of years and thousands and millions more will propound yet there is no end of eternity.
Catholic. Does not care for the bible, will not read it nor hear any person on the subject of religion but the Priest. The church will take care for him and its none of his care.
Stammers. Says he wants real religion very much and prays and does all he can to get it.
Very fierce and revengeful spirit, in conversation he introduced a portion of scrip, respecting Simeoon a remark I made respecting the curse of God upon his anger seemed to startle him, and served to tame his anger.
Says he was once a member of Methodist Church in Delaware, enjoyed religion for a short time. But declined from that state soon, was swept away by bad company, yet never violated the laws. Was ignorant of being in possession of counterfeit money was imposed on by one, he had formerly known. Very contradictory in his statements and evidently wanting in sincerity, this with absolute ignorance of religion, have plain proof that he never knew God.
A young lawyer says he is of a highly respectable family, gave himself up to gambling theater and all dissipation. In a moment of desperation by the loss of his future committed the act which brought him to prison. Mother pious, feels the loss of character, but not disposed to seek salvation. Says he cannot feel wright on the subject.
A very interesting looking man. Catholic considerably enlightened by the scriptures but no solid impression of the real state of his soul
Hopes he has diligently sought the lord lately taken sick, was afraid of dying before him time expired. Seemed much concerned to have the Lord preserve him from sin if permitted to return to society.
Catholic. Says he understands various languages, was educated to be a Priest, did not choose the profession, has no disposition for religion. Cannot speak well enough in English to converse upon those subjects.
Enlisted in the British army at the age of 9. Deserted in Canada and came to U.S. in his 20th year. Extremely ignorant. Seems hardly any conception of God or of his soul. Says he prays or tries to pray, but does not know what more he can do.
Formerly engineer, a young man whose spirit seems to be easily tamed, returned to his cell for misdemeanor, put on a careless appearance and hardihood, awakened considerable emotion by reference to his Father and left him softened.
A man of prepossessing countenance. Showed a deeper sense of shame than any I have yet seen in prison, has had a strong desire to be the subject of religion and has prayed without success, confesses guilt. Parents pious, Methodists. [[At top of page: Real name Sinclair ƒ?? of wealthy and respectable family]]
Professes innocence of the charge against him and has no feeling on the subject of religion.
Hoped he was converted at my very first visit and gave little or no evidence of it. Afterwards relinquished his pretences to it and seemed rather serious, desired further conversation wishes me to write a letter to his father.
Very respectable and polite, but unwilling to converse on the subject of religion or to entertain any thoughts concerning it, although he believes it absolutely necessary to salvation. His only reason is that there are certain worldly interest which he is resolved to secure, which must be given up, if he attends to it.
Asserts he is not a thief, yet confesses he is now in prison on 3 indictments and has been 5 times guilty of stealing. Stole always for revenge is evidently of a revengeful spirit. Had some serious conversation with him of judgment and eternity but probably in vain.
Says he was at 8 yrs old guilty of larceny and condemned for 3 yrs, is now 25. Out of 17 years has been in prison 16. His mind seems to be painfully impressed and often wishes himself dead. Says his father was a Methodist minister in Southwark ƒ?? feels as if the Devil had complete power over his mind, has the most wicked thoughts imaginable. He is going to hell and has no power to turn.
Asserts his innocence, apparently careless.
Son of a black Presbyterian minister in New York. Professes repentance and conversion, awakened by a sermon by Mr. Bradford from Matt II. I will arise and go unto my Father. Seems very ignorant and has very little knowledge of the hearts deep depravity.
His mind seems engrossed with worldly pleasures, circus shows [[etc]] Not disposed to converse on the subject of religion.
Dialect of an Irishman, in delicate health. Professes to have been converted in prison shows considerable knowledge of religion is rather conscious and looks like one long practiced in stealing.
Thinks God has brought him to this place to separate him from his sins, yet has no just perception of the evil and danger of his sins. Is therefore not very hopeful.
When in the infirmary Demented, seems entirely indifferent to the subject of religion.
Does not wish to converse on religion, seems utterly indifferent.
Says he obtained clothes of the Son of the man with whom he lived and gave them to him at a time when the son was going from home in consequence of a quarrel. Did not deal them. Very ignorant, no feeling in relation to his eternal interest.
Very stupid and insensible in relation to religion
Says he exploded a keg of powder and burnt himself badly. The prods very evident. Says he was drunk, knew not what he was doing
Child 7 years old, denies the charge and seems wholly unaffected either with the crime or his sins, or the gloomy prospect of 11 years or of eternity.
Says he reads and prays and hopes he is reformed or converted, evidently an unfounded hope. Has the Scrofula. Have called repeatedly within 2 weeks past and admonished him of approaching death, which seemed to startle him but he seems to have had no great anxiety on the subject since. Called on Sunday afternoon found him sitting on the bedside converse with him respecting his soul- in less than an hour afterwards he expired in the same position
Not much disposed to speak on the subjects of a serious character yet evinced some feeling
An old convict of whom from appearance there is not much hope.
Extremely ignorant and hardened in sin. Averse to hear of God and religion. This man committed with the two preceding, affirms that he never was guilty of theft in his life, coming on to the city fell into company with them and in a few hours was arrested with them for a crime which they had committed the night before, he having never seen or spoken to them. Wants to remain in prison a day or two to avoid them.
Expresses a desire to reform his life, but winces very little present concern regarding it. March 23 seems very near death in a state of stuper that prevents intercourse (infirmary)
Suffering with ven. A hardened and hopeless case at present.
Seems to have never had any religion instruction or feeling. Old, grey headed, unhappy in family connections, unwise in conduct, earthly, enjoyments withered, prospects blasted, yet regardless of the future and of eternity. Says he is not afraid to die, has been punished here enough, donƒ??t dear being punished again.
A convict before, insists that his confinement is illegal, filled with bitterness of spirt. Will not hear of religion. Seems to be a hopeless case. In July seemed to feel on the subject of religion ƒ?? death seemed near (infirmary)
Only learning to read, says he has learned much in prison but is not impressed with the importance of religion.
Once in Auburn Penitentiary New York. Thinks he is now reformed and prays but does not appear to have any object in prayed, but to establish his own righteousness.
Seems perfectly hardened against religious impressions.
Has had serious thoughts has wept and prayed and still prays
Indifferent to religion. Hardened and impenitent
Attempted the life of his wife, had indulged in licentious intercourse previous to marriage and knew that others also had. Was obliged unwillingly to marry her and hated her. Is unwilling to live with her. Never knew anything of the word of God or the guilt of sin, until he learned it from the Bible in prison. Seems very serious and prayerful and I hope the lord will effectually renew his soul. May 8th have strong reason to hope he has been made a subject of renewing grace.
Seems convinced that he needs a change of heart, feels no great concern does not pray.
Says he issued spurious notes, led into it by another person and totally ignorant of its being a violation of law, at present sick, apprehensive of dying very strictly educated as a Presbyterian and wrapped in his own righteousness, rejecting Christ, yet unconvinced of the fact.
Cannot understand English
Cannot understand English.
Greatly under the influence of secret vice, simple and very ignorant. Professes to feel interested for the welfare of his soul. Not much to be hoped respecting him. Subsequently a deep concern manifest, lest his life and soul be lost through sensual indulgence. Says he never indulges when awake.
Cannot speak of understand English.
Given very much to lying, cannot depend upon anything he says therefore no hope of him
Grossly ignorant and perverse, was educated Presbyterian, if educated at all. Believes the church of Rome the true church because the Romans were spoken of in the new Testament. Considers them the same as the Roman Catholics. Evidently disputes to evade serious conversation.
Carpet weaver, a young man whose appearance and delicate health, excites deep interest. Seems much affected and depressed when conversed with on the subject of religion, but not very silent.
Catholic. In a state of feverish excitement to get out of prison, will not speak of religion. Cannot think of anything in prison. Destroying his reason by Onan.
Cannot read but anxious to learn, some indication of the operation of Gods spirit upon his mind. A simple weak minded man wished to remain in Philadelphia to be baptized.
Was apparently under convictions of sin and professes to have obtained a hope in Christ from the first sermon I preached in the prison from the words it is a faithful saying [[etc]] Said it filled him with joy and made him happy and he had read the text 2 or three times per day for a long time after and still read it with joy
Says he is resolved to attend to the welfare of his soul, professes a hope in salvation but is not satisfactory.
German Catholic. Cannot understand English.
Jew and Catholic. Deranged and dangerous.
Cannot speak English. Have not been able to ascertain any favorable change in this person because unable to converse with him
Thinks he has repented of his sins and means to serve the Lord.
Anxious to learn to read and desirous to have religious converse and instruction
A Catholic and more anxious to acquit himself of the charge of murder than to obtain forgiveness of his past sins from God.
Catholic, in a state of feverish excitement cannot compose his mind to think of religion wants to get out. May 28th Seemed afraid to return to the world. A stranger, not knowing what to do, said his bible had been his only and perhaps was his best companion. Wished to take some tracts. Prayed for Gods blessing to rest upon me and wept at parting.
Of a vain and trifling spirit, regardless of religion. Is positive that he will repent but has no desire to do so now.
Has no feeling on the subject of religion. Wishes to feel but cannot
Once in Walnut St. Seven years out of prison now in again. Confesses his desert, admits the necessity of religion, not now disposed to regard its claims. Thankful for advice [[etc]]
Cannot speak or understand English.
Has no desire for religious and more instruction
Says he was formerly of good character, had a mother and 5 sisters living in Arch St. near 2nd who know not where he is. Intoxicated when he committed the crime. Regrets his fault but is impenitent, does not pray.
Not disposed to entertain serious thoughts evidently hardened and bent upon a cause of vice and crime
Hopes to be a changed man before he leaves the prison, gives but little indication of it.
Like most old convicts, seeking relief from the fears of judgment, by skepticism. Took torn tract and asked for a hymn book
Catholic and so orthodox that books presented by a Catholic priest in this country are suspected and he will not read them, will not hear anything from me, enraged at my attempt to converse with him.
Formerly tavern keeper = constable and boatman, became depraved in his morals. Hopes his confinement is a merciful interposition of God for his salvation. Seems very penitent
Has said very little heretofore so as to make it difficult to form an opinion respecting his character. Feb 1839 Professes to be the subject of a gospel hope and evinces a knowledge of spiritual influence which is not derived from Bunyan- is encouraging= but I am not without suspicion of the source from which he has derived it.
Began to steal when 14 years old, thinks he will now reform. Tries to pray, reads the Bible, Canƒ??t understand some words wants dictionary.
Strenuously affirms entire innocence of the charge. Seems desirous of religious instruction, hears with apparent interest.
Contented with his conditions, not guilty, not willing to entertain the sense of guilt for his sin against God
Educated by friends in Bucks Co. seems to be religiously impressed, expresses a determination to live to God. Professes to enjoy a sense of the divine favor. Appearances favorable.
Calls himself Duec, ignorant and insolent apparently deranged.
A young man of good mind. Somewhat improved by reading and reflections, at one time anxious for works of science. Now and for some time past under deep and I believe sincere concern for his soul. Always interesting. Jan 22nd- After very deep impressions and great mental distress, through secret indulgence as there is reason to suppose, seems determined to castoff religious thought and take refuge in infidelity. Oct. 39 continues hopeless.
Somewhat intelligent, feels solitude, depressing and oppressive, not disposed to be communicative affirms entire innocence.
Professes to have a true sense of sin and some hope of salvation, but does not exhibit a Christian spirit, denies his guilt.
A Jew, could not speak English well enough to converse upon religion, assented to everything addressed to him but without feeling anything
Regarded himself as a good Christian belonged to the church, took the sacrament. Was honest and innocent of the charge. Have him a clear view of regeneration the necessity of it. That fallacy of a hope resting upon a mere profession [[etc]] but without producing any effect.
At my first visit, morose, hardened and unwilling to converse. Since, more disposed to listen, shows some feeling, promises to walk circumspectly in future, and avoid evil companions.
Has been living in prostitution two or three years during which produced repeated abortion. Had a pious mother who on her death bed and often before seriously admonished her of her course of levity and folly. Expressed fear that prostitution, the Penitentiary and the gallows would be her portion. Says she has seen nothing but sorrow in her sinful courses, weeps at the remembrance of her mother and her past life. Is deeply affected by the fulfillment of her motherƒ??s warning voice, therefor, denies to repent and turn to God, not much stability of character.
Right now John Wilson. At first seemed to be utterly hopeless, very hardened, and morose. Refused to speak and seemed angry. Next visit found him much affected by reading. Bunyans vision of heaven and hell. Silent yet laboring under strong emotions wept and was grateful for prayer and instruction. Now hopeful. Continued under good impressions until.
A sort of wild man of the woods, has lived a semi savage life in western wilds. No sense of religion
Drove an omnibus in Philadelphia. In company with another young man (now in prison) opened a trunks in Harrisburg and robbed it. Does not pray has no concern for the future or for his souls welfare. Mother pious. Called to request me to pay attention to his spiritual interest.
Understands pretty well what is required in order to salvation, but seems not to feel. Head very white but not with age. Professed conversion June 1839. Have found it sincere as I supposed. Pretends he only meant to try me.
An Irish catholic, from the scriptures has obtained a knowledge of true religion and rejects the superstitions of popery. Knows that without regeneration he cannot enter the kingdom of heaven, convinced partially of condition, is not converted, but will strive [[etc]]
In the frilling mill. Very taciturn, no disposition to converse upon religious subjects, of course indifferent to them.
Professed to be a Catholic, is very ignorant. Does not believe the Bible. Mind changed by reading Gleigs History of the Bible. Seems now serious. Nov. 27th 1839 Says his mind has been anxious for 3 months past.
Does not feel much on the subject of religion.
Catholic. Not subject to religious feeling, other than what is common to Catholicism. Very little disposed to enter upon such subjects.
Seems hopelessly under the influence of Catholic Superstition. Is visited by the Priest.
Very pious in his way, visited by the Priest. Doing penance.
An entirely careless fellow, donƒ??t care for anything serious.
Says he is married to a very pious woman a Presbyterian. Seems to have a disposition to receive instruction and to hear the gospel. Seems divested in some degree of the errors of popery. Gives a bad name to 862 with whom he was acquainted.
Manifest a spirit of bitter resentment against those with whom he lived and by whom he was cruelly treated in early life which he extends to society. Cannot pray and will not. Has tried to do so, but his heart is too hard. Some alarm in apprehension of death from most serious concern for his welfare hereafter.
Taciturn, assents to everything I say, manifests no feeling of the truth or importance of the subjects, wishes me to call however.
Applied to Mr. Rhoads and Loxley 6 years ago to join the Baptist church and was to have been baptized. Baptism being on Sunday morning and he a barber, could not go. Was brought up a Catholic, but lost confidence in the religion wished to join a church because he felt himself a sinner and wished to do something for the salvation of his soul. Most shockingly ignorant of everything connected with experimental religion.
German. Professes to be converted to God, prays, reads his word, feels happy. Never was a very bad man, yet is a sinner in the sight of God. Reads German testament.
Tell a plausible tale of innocence, has no proper sense of the evil of his heart.
No disposition to receive religious instruction.
Nothing of a hopeful character in him at present.
Says he thinks of his sins and prays daily ƒ?? is trying to learn to read.
Indifferent to religious instruction.
Exhibits some concern for his soul, tears came into his eyes when speaking of his sins, has had religious impressions, which passed away. Now prays again, wants to love God and serve him. Subsequently had his impressions greatly deepened under a sermon in March.
Quite careless. Disposed to disregard everything of a serious religious nature.
At first visit found him serious and melancholy but not willing to attend to religion. Subsequently much more favorably disposed to the subject. An old rover and rogue as per (568 Sam J. Peoples) 568 Informs me his name is Larkins and his cognomen among thieves, the Red Rover ƒ?? an old convict and thief.
Very hard and insensible, no relish for religion
Not inclined to converse on any subject, much less on religious subjects
Says he is not guilty. Manifests such bitterness of spirt as renders conversation useless
Not very encouraging appearances in relation to his eternal interests
Mind appears to be a little serious. Has been a wanderer from early life, is anxious if possible to obtain favor of God. Discouraged by the fruitlessness of his efforts and the many temptations by which he is assailed
Borrowed a horse without leave in old Chester did not mean to keep it. Hopes he is cured of vice. Prays daily- like many prisoners to still the voice of conscience, or to establish some kind of righteousness of their own.
A sailor has sewed in the navy. At first visit not disposed to converse. Subsequently serious confessed his guilt and expresses resolution to reform his vicious courses, does not evince spiritual illumination.
Tells a plausible tale of his innocence but affords no hope of religious improvement
Seems very lively and as though he knew not what the sense of prayer is, but says he prays daily. Toward the close of his time gave some hope of reform.
Nothing worth of special notice in this prisoner- some disposition to learn.
Young man Barkeeper in a tavern and oyster house. Injured by associations there. Serious and anxious for religious instruction. Prays daily but ineffectually, prays at random. Expresses thankfulness for my visits. Seemed suddenly to obtain a real knowledge of the way of salvation and professed hope in Chirstianity a few weeks previous to his discharged.
Indisposed to receive religious instruction.
Seems very dull and does no comprehend what is said to him. German. Says he prays night and morning
Seems like a quiet orderly man, serious and giving some hope of reform but not much of spiritual renovation. Says he prays. Dec 6th 1839 Further intercourse affords solid evidence of hopeful change in hear in this man was given to extreme intemperance at times.
No devise to receive religious instruction, nor to converse on such subjects.
Quite satisfied with his present moral condition. Thinks he is good enough.
Young man from the Wind Gap, seems serious though very ignorant. Had in possession some cloth stolen by him half brother. Did not know that it was stolen
Young Englishman of fine personal appearance of the Theatrical Corps. Says he was educated for the stage from early childhood, never received any religious instruction and does not desire it, because he considers his lot for life settled. Is exceedingly wretched.
Professes to be a Protestant, but is evidently a Catholic. Exceedingly irascible, will not converse on religious topics, commits his eternal interests to the care of the church. Deranged
Apprenticed formerly to G.W. Duffy. Habits of early dissipation had well nigh accomplished his destruction hopes God has interposed to save him from it. Feels very deeply interested to obtain religious instruction. Ready to welcome groundless hopes. Weeps when I weep them away but desires to be taught currently.
Does not read the scripture has no wish to repent. Says he is a freeman and obviously deranged. Tell me ƒ??go talk to the convicts about such damned stuffƒ?
No interest in the subject of religion.
Confesses her sin with tears, prays. Seems humble and tender. Has been led to think too well of herself by Lady visitors
An old convict his whole life nearly spent in prisons. Wept at the remembrance of his past life, of which he gave a brief account. Native of the city. A hopeless case. July 17, 1840 Real name John Russel, not well, have a detail of his life cause of his fall. Former respectability, deep sorrow for the past and resolute determination for the future. Mother very aged lives in Type Alley with his sister Mrs Mother member of B. Mathias Church Hilltown. Has children grown up. Lived with a woman as wife.
Lofty spirit, very restive and unwilling to receive instruction. Shows a better spirit. Professes to be changed.
A boy of Indian Extraction. Very singular character, ignorant, seems regardless of his condition and destitute of moral sense. Thinks he has done wrong and hopes to do better but is incapable of any settled feeling, will not try to learn to read is sure he cannot
Cannot speak English, wants German Bible gave him a testament and German tracts. No perceptible change in this prisoner, very restless and uneasy through his whole confinement.
A young man, a Taylor. Has had religious impressions, possesses some correct ideas of religion, says he has prayed and sought the Lord with earnestness and often, but ineffectually lives and lungs affected. Seems very tender on the subject of religion, but no energy of character whatever.
A native of this city, says he is grandson to Mr. Field Mercht. Is sensible of the need of grace of God to change his heath and his course and endeavors to seek it. But makes no great advance if any. Seems anxious for instruction. In a condition of mind somewhat encouraging and hopeful when a Pardon was received and he Discharged May 20th 1839
Irish Catholic. Says but little, wept silently while I conversed with him. Subsequently less affected, cheered by the hope of deliverance from prison. Not hopeful
Not sensible of the necessity of the grace of God to renew the heard of man.
No confidence can be reposed in this man. Has in former imprisonment possessed conversion
A fine looking man very taciturn. No wish to converse, no desire to be seen. Subsequently more communicative, but desirous to establish his innocence. No disposition to speak on subjects of religion. Has been in Auburn State Prison New York a short time.
Says he has been stealing 12 years and 10 years in prison. Has been condemned 6 times. Says he is very unhappy, would fain and wise from his wretched course but for want of employment is forced back to the commission of crime. Is evidently unhappy.
Very careless and hardened. Bad temper. No wish for intercourse with me
Very anxious to learn to read the scriptures makes good progress. Said he had no trouble but for his soul. Subsequent visits delightful. Weeps, prays, deeply prostrate in soul before God. Charles McKinlis ƒ?? Gilberts Tavern 15 miles above Norristown
Greatly affected at his entrance into Prison. Vary anxious to obtain the parson of his past sins. Subsequently attempted indulge a hope evidently groundless = more anxious to be happy than to see the true state of the heart as it is in the sight of the lord.
In this prison before 6 years went forth with a firm hope that he was a converted man. Being abandoned by his wife, who had once been a professor of religion and who was living with another man, also by brothers and sisters. Accused of hypocrisy for going to meeting. He not long after fell into crime again. Is not firmly resolved that he will never enter a prison again.
Insensibility perfectly apparent
Says her prayers, reads the scriptures. Seems to have some slight sense of her guilt but not very hopeful
Seems deeply affected by the condition in which his crime has placed him, appears to have some conviction of sin. Prays often through the day ƒ?? mother member of Church in Reading. Now in Engine House.
Mind not all affected by religion, wants a Danish Bible to read [[etc]]
Kept a house of ill fame, sold rum. Seems to have a conscience seared
Says he in company with another Black. Took horse for the purpose of riding homeward for a few miles, without intending to steal it and turned it loose supposing it would find its way back, were drunk at the time. No sense of religion
Runaway slave from Baltimore. Hopes his confinement may be useful to him has no true sense of sin. See Journal of November 20 1839 on the best of death; consumption.
Was formerly a member of Baptist Church Phoenixville never gave reason to hope that he possessed religion. Wept and winced tenderness and shame but now seems to have become easy and to have but little sense of sin
Seems to have been greatly excited from the beginning of his confinement, wept and prayed seems subsiding without hopeful results
Cannot understand English
When in prison before had conviction of sin and prayed and felt very unhappy all to no purpose threw it off and feels better not to think of such things, thinks of them no longer.
No promise of awakening conviction altogether indifferent to religious instruction. Subsequently, awakened to a sense of her sinful condition and concern for salvation
Struck his wife with an axe while drunk. No proper impression of his guilt
Old man from Chambersburg, visited him soon after his entrance seemed to be much affected, wept freely. Has seemed tender ever since, rather wearing off. This man has since given satisfactory proof of a hopeful change and in
Attempted rape on his own daughter 12 years old. Says he was drunk and knows not what he did, has been for some years very intemperate, is ignorant, senseless and hardened
Saw him soon after his entrance was then much affected and wept but his sorrow I fear were not for sin. Has been ever since deeply affected and I doubt not under the influence of Gods gracious spirit. May 27th ƒ?? Sick with varioloid
Appears to have no desire for religious conversation
From Phoenixville is acquainted with Rev. Mr. Nicholls. Has no religious feeling. Have heard a bad character from prisoner 917, who says he talks with others and boasts of great success in stealing
Professes some desire to serve God and pray but has no proper sense of sin. June 11th 1839 Called for to visit him. In distress for sin ƒ?? subsequently impression wearing off and ineffectual.
Seen past feeling conviction, expects to be saved by faith and hope. Indifferent to religion.
Pleads not guilty. Seems bold and hardened familiar with a prison, has read the bible much in prison, has read the Bible much in prison but evidently with no advantage.
Appeared to be overwhelmed with grief and shame. Denied her participation in the guilt of her husband, who sent her to pass counterfeit money. She was ignorant of its character. Husband a Belgian infidel and very hardened ƒ?? herself a bad character daughter to Mrs. Deforest
Perfectly hardened, an infidel will not hear anything on the subject of religion, gets angry
Very ignorant and hardened. Says his Father would not suffer him to attend religious meetings, it was of no use. Seems almost destitute of sensibility. This poor creature seems to be a slave to brutal appetite.
Called by request to see him in infirmary in evident and deep distress for his sins and exceedingly anxious to know what he must do to be saved. Parents died when he was young, scarcely remembers them, has been raised up into life in ignorance extreme never entered a church or heard a sermon or knew a better. No man ever told him anything of God or his soul, but his condition in prison and the preaching here has awakened intense anxiety to know the way to be saved.
Says he never was in prison before, never had any serious thoughts of God or religion in his life, scarcely capable of thinking at all
This man is completely under the influence of superstition, has his cell hung round with crosses (9) is visited by the Priest. Professes innocence. Hopeless
Came from Canada only 3 weeks before this charge is greatly afflicted and distressed by confinement but not by the guilt of sin. See journal Sept 24th, 1839
Made drunk by evil companion and in that state enticed to steal, much depressed in mind but not on account of sin.
Seems beyond the reach of any other influence than popery
Very careless, respecting the interests of the soul
Charged with robbing the cars at Columbia in company with Henry Davis and others. Denies the charge. No realizing sense of his guilt before God.
Altogether indisposed to converse on religion. Seems to shrink from all observation
His grandmother Ann McKeage is 90 years old Sells fruit and cakes Arch and 4th. A remarkably fine and prepossessing countenance. Seems greatly affected and wept. Says he was not guilty, but being in company with a boy who stole, his fears led him to act as a participator, tries to pray. Attempted Castration.
Robbed Bernards Store of 300$ worth. Lived when young with Pearson Serrill. Confesses his guilt and desert. Greatly attached to wife and family, member of Simmon Baptist Church. Does not feel his guilt sufficiently
A very interesting looking girl, who has given evidence of being old in crime. Seems subdued, wept plentifully during my visit and has seemed deeply concerned for her soul since. Has been addicted to falsehood and deceit. Continues to deal in falsehood so that no confidence can be placed in anything she says.
Had an illegitimate child born dead, concealed. Seems very tender. Says but little weeps
Indifferent to the subject of religion, pleads not guilty. [This is Major Downing the scribbler on books]
Altogether regardless of the interests of his soul
Exceedingly depressed by solitary confinement has had some religious instruction. Expresses a desire to be saved by the grace of God. Sent for to visit him. Roused to [[inture]] feeling by reading a tract from Baptist Depository. ƒ??My Own Wayƒ? He said it had brought up his whole life before him, especially his youth and filled him with unspeakable distress and he was anxious to receive whatever instruction or consolation I could impart.
Wrote and signed an order for goods, gave it to another boy who obtained them. Says he did not design to have it presented and knew it not No just impression of guilt.
Professes to be innocent, indulges the vain hope of pardon. Mother living
Charged with stealing a horse which he says he had bought, not knowing it had been stolen. Wept very freely on account of his confinement, not effected I think on account of his sins. Has had small pox in prison.
Nothing at all hopeful in him, hardened by crime. Learning to spell.
Says she was led into her crime by her husband, was sent by her husband to pledge stolen goods. Thinks of her sins now and professes concern for the interest of her soul and deep solicitude for the salvation of her husband.
Says is sensible of his sins; but is manifestly insensible.
Very much affected and wept at his entrance. Confesses his crime ƒ?? never stole before- The above. In deep distress on Friday and Saturday June 28 and 29 on account of his sins. On Monday morning calm and full of hope and happiness. Tears flowing, yet rejoicing. Appearance highly favorable. July 23 Humble happy thankful to God for arrest and imprisonment
Mother a member of Olivers St. Church, New York. Barkeeper in this City. Deeply affected with his present degradation and confinement. Anxious for religious instruction. Has been very loose character from youth, been to sea, would not be a sailor on account of discourse in the head swimming and fainting. Hopes he is changed.
Pleads not guilty, but his own story nearly or quite convicts him. Professed fondness for religious books, has but slight sense, if any, of his accountableness to God.
Chief of his time Demented or deranged. Fierce and wicked. When in possession of his senses, altogether regardless of religion.
Real name Joseph Cunius, brother to Israel Cunius no [[black]] Has no soul. Bitter spirit, writhing under the judgments of God and spurring his mercy. Ignorant Skeptical, determined to reject his last and only hope, the Gospel.
Regards his lot cast for life, hopeless of change for the better. Read to him the character and death of Paine. Listened seriously. Subsequently winces some interest, asked a bible, stained it.
Seems to have no feeling whatever. No desire to hear any conversation of a serious kind. Seems to have been a dissipated character. Wife died since he came to prison. Relatives sent him a catholic book, to prepare him to meet her in heaven.
Loudly asserts entire innocence of the crime charged against him. Is not disposed to consider the solemnities of a future judgement or any subject connected with it.
Mind crushed and broken by intemperance. Taciturn, weeps easily, mind wandering, no disposition to speak of religious matters, either silly, demented, or very deceptive.
Seemed disposed to make light of his confinement, puts on an air of hardihood.
Murder of his wife gives a shocking account of the drunkenness. Denies the charge. Very restless and impatient of confinement by no means hopeful. Inclined to serious topics. Considers himself a good Christian.
Greatly affected with his wretched condition and weeps and manifests deep anxiety for salvation. Has cried aloud under preaching. Has expressed some hope, but is manifestly in darkness yet.
Very ignorant of religion. Seems never to have had his mind much directed to the subject. Much agitated by the prospect of long confinement. Says he prays and does all that he can. Cannot do more. Was struck by a young man (who was married to his wifeƒ??s daughter, caught him having a knife (dining) in his hand. Both fell, the knife accidentally passing onto the neck of the victim. He bled to death. Drunk when the deed was committed.
Very sensible of the wrong he has done, which was induced by drunkenness. Seems more tender in his feeling than is usual with Catholic and grateful for religious instruction.
Was 6 mos in Moyamensing, was pardoned. Has a mother in New Orleans and numerous relatives in Philadelphia. Seems to have little sense of the evil of his crime
Distinguished as a good prisoner, quiet obedient, orderly. Very tender feelings when religious truths are pressed upon her attention and easily excited to tears but very unstable in her purposes of reform.
Once in Moyamensing. A boatman in the coal trade, was drunk when the crime was committed. Sick Ven. No serious impressions. Subsequently asked for a bible. Says he is determined to steal no more.
Was in the US Army 5 years and was injured greatly by it, was drunk in a stable did not steal nor intent it. Never had any serious religious impressions.
Wishes to appear innocent of the charge, without actually denying it, giving a view of the slight evidence on which he was convicted. Seems tender, weeps, but seems confident that his imprisonment has been the means of salvation a hasty and I fear an unfounded conclusion. Confirmed the story of L.G. Caufman above. Seems tender. Disposed at one time to be a Catholic.
Indifferent to religion, no wish to talk of it. Taciturn. Small crime was drunk and did not success in his purpose bridled a horse in a state of intoxication and fell asleep while going it
Seems rather more serious and tender than at first. Hopes to improve his time here.
One year in Moyamensing. Has never been troubled at all or not much respecting the welfare of his soul. Now careless.
Not impressed with a sense of sin or the necessity of religion. Has never had correct information respecting the subject.
Has been one year in America, does not speak English sufficiently to converse on religion. Not much inclined to do so. Remarkably mild temper, naturally good disposition, very grateful for the least attention
Professes deep concern for his eternal welfare. Hoped when he left prison before he was converted is now convinced of his error and says he trembles for the safety of his soul. Poor old man seems to feel very deeply says he does enjoy hope of mercy. But is a stranger to the hidden will of the soul. Subsequently, a month previous to his discharge I was left to entertain a hope for him.
Seems indifferent to religion and not disposed for conversation
Very much depressed by confinement as is usual at first. Mind seriously affected, prays, asked for Testament begins to read a little. Some hope of this man.
Reads in spelling book, no religious instruction in early life, no present sense of her sins.
Mothing living in Pottsville. (Presbyterian and Pious) wept at the remembrance of his crime and the pain it has given to him. He was driving cattle for a man, who upon going to bed placed his pocket book under his head containing 82$ Temptation proved too great for him, got up at night, and went off with it. No religious impressions. Disease of main at entrance, had it some years.
Was in prison before and left in May last. Has conducted well since. Present conviction for an offence committed previous to the last, imprisonment. Manifests considerable desire to feel the influence of religion. A greater talker but a little doer. The above story of his crime false
Seems very deeply and seriously affected not only with his degraded and wretched condition but also on account of sin. So that he almost despairs of mercy, subsequently continues to feel as at first, weeps and prays. His parents are pious Methodists. Connected with circus riders his ruin.
Pleads not guilty. Another man stole the money and gave it to him to keep for him. He did not know it was stolen. Not anxious for religious instruction. Begins to be serious. Jan 12th Seems awakening to the interests of his soul. Denies guilt
Parents living. Mother pious, reads very little. Not much feeling apparent. Subsequently the subject of seriousness and tenderness.
His mother living. Very ignorant, is destitute of religious feeling. Feels confinement sorely. June 22 Powerfully wrought upon by his feelings, crying aloud and praying. Keeper thought him deranged and had him removed, brought back next day. Awakened to a sense of his guilt and danger. Catholic.
Resolute temper, seems to have never much thought of his soul or heaven or hell. Seems to have lost much of his natural vivacity. Is rather taciturn.
Indifferent to religious instruction but anxious to learn to read.
Says he is a member of the Methodist church. Has experience the power of divine grace and was living without reproach. Strenuously asserts entire innocence of the murder of his wife. Says she strung out of the window and killed herself by the fall. When he was assailed by her paramour with an ace which out his head.
Seems like a man of excellent natural disposition, amicable temper [[etc]] Says that after leaving this prison, returned home, commenced business everybody pitied him. Aided him and he prospered more than ever before. But in evil hour got drunk and fell again, has strong desire for property. Now hopes he is changed some ƒ?? unfounded.
Denied the charge, not much feeling apparent.
No feeling respecting religion, says he was put into country prison 6 months justly, but was not guilty of the present charge.
No just perceptions of the sinfulness of his heart and life, careless.
Seems somewhat tender and serious.
Indifferent to religion. Thinks he has a good a hope as many others and is not concerned for future. Took a gun. Stupefied by rum. Donƒ??t believe in future retribution, hardened.
Came in stick, scarlet fever. Dr. thought him at one time hopeless. Seems to feel a little ƒ?? his guilt.
Denied his guilt. No concern in reform to his soul
Came into prison deranged, has always been a slave to his lusts. Deranged by indulgence.
Denies his guilt and weeps, distressed by confinement only. Seems fierce and revengeful, laughs at the mention of a hell ƒ?? This prison he says is hell and there is none worse than this, will never be taken alive again, means to die rather than return [[etc]]
Not affected by the truth of God or the state of his soul
Shows a slight disposition to listen to the Gospel, but not much interest. Have learned that he has been accustomed to pilfering and stealing, and though his present offense is small (5 lbs of rags) he is punished for other crimes, before committed
Ignorant of her state and indifferent to her spiritual interests.
At present a most hopeless case, filling up the measure of her inequities. Only 2 months since she left the prison until her return.
Ignorant of the principles of religion and not much feeling. Seemed somewhat serious
Appears to feel his absence from his wife and family very deeply. Seems never to have had any correct views of gospel truth no great desire to converse on such topics.
Seems to be very much affected and very tender, weeps and affords some hopeful appearances. Says she is sensible of her sins and pray s to God, but feels afraid there is no mercy for her. Never had religious impressions until now.
Has had some slight convictions of sin but transient, not worth naming, is very taciturn. No sense of guilt now.
Not a hopeful person, left wife and children at the west. Came on to see friends in Jersey got into bad company, drinking and stealing, wept but has no idea of repentance. Afraid to have his friends know where he is. Never here before was 3 months in Moyamensing out three months, get drunk, in bad company, stole and was sent here.
Hardened and impudent, scoffs at religion. Professed atheist. Entered this prison at the age of 16, having been before convicted. Served 3 years, left December 30th 1938. Reentered Jan 26 1839 for the above crimes.
Says he is unjustly confined for having removed property confided to his case, to a place of safety. Expects to be justified by the law of God, ignorant of his true condition, no sense of sin. Subsequently confesses his guilt with tears. Said he was once a professor of religion an Exhorter, and had been for the last 6 years living a dissipated and profligate life.
Began to steal at the age of eleven, is now in prison the 6th time or 6 years. Very dull of comprehension, seems never to have considered his condition, guilt, and danger. Told him that God has said thieves shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Warned him of the judgment and while I spoke, tears silently coursed down his cheeks and the solemnity of death and judgment seemed upon him. Since demented.
Tried to justify or to palliate his offence, shows not much disposition to be profited by conversation yet is confident he will never see the inside of prison again. Was raised by a pious family of Methodists, but never had religious impressions.
Have some knowledge of his family in Connecticut. Denied the charge, says he bought a barrel of flour. Witness swore it was the same that was stolen from him. Could not prove his innocence because witnesses were absent. Trial was adjourned from time to time on account of it. Could not obtain the needful evidence. When informed of my acquaintance with his Uncle, bowed his face in his hands and tears poured silently and plentifully, 14 Feb. Says he owns a farm in Litchfield.
Has stole before, was drunk when he committed the crime. Is very ignorant and especially of religion. Knows nothing of religious impression. Weeps- because of his punishment
Went from this prison 3 or 4 years since professed religion, imposed on Mr. Strancliff. Very vain of his knowledge, has read considerable but is not with it and ignorant. Thought in early life was a real Christian for 5 years but I found sufficient evidence that he knew not God. Still there is some appearance of real desire to know God. Like that of Balaam. Let me [[etc]]
Never affected by serious thoughts, been of low and vagrant habits. Lived with aunt, worked some in brick yards. Was in Moyamensing 3 months. Stupid and Careless.
Came out of Moyamensing 9 months since. Stole the value of a weeks wages, which the woman she lived with had refused. Seems hardened. Laughs and shows other indications of want of feeling and absence of moral principle.
Has evidently no proper sense of sin. Says since he left the prison 2 years ago, was at work at his trade and doing well. But a man who knew him cautioned his employer and told him that he was two in prison before and meant to conduct well only until he could he a change to steal. In despair he rushed to the bottle and fell again
Says he never stole before, did not mean to steal now. Thought himself justly entitled to do what he did, wanted to pay himself illegally what he considered justly due.
Seems to have no just sense of his condition, feels the sorrow of the world. Was drunk will never enter again such a place as this is very confident. April 25th seems in deep distress under the impression that his soul is lost. Affected by the sermon yesterday
Appears ashamed, not willing to converse. No religious sense of the evil of sin.
Can obtain but little satisfaction, weeps on account of confinement. Is an Irish catholic and very ignorant, found this man extremely false and deceitful in almost every respect. Pretty good education, shrewd and quick mind [[etc]]
Has been four years out of this prison and doing well. Has been during said time at work at his business in Pittsburg returned 3 months ago to this city, fell into bad company at tram shop, Callowhill and Front, was led as he affirms into that for which he now suffers, ignorantly by William Welsh 57 ƒ?? began to steal copper from his master for which he came first to this place when 19 years old.
Attributes his crime and imprisonment to Jospeh Laird (56) who he says after a short acquaintance got him to go with him to a place from which he had previously stolen goods of some kind and of which he knew nothing but where an officer arrested Laird and one called Parker. He was taken with them, being in their company. But Laird testifies that he is the one who led on in the crime of having robbed a countryman of 3 dollars which seems to be true. Welsh once before was taken up on suspicion and discharged, was also for some time in house of refuge. Weeps and feels the wretchedness of his condition. Has no right impressions of sin.
In deep affliction, thinks he will never survive his confinement. Is frightened of being in such a place, seems like a man of weak mind, is deranged when he gets to drinking. Got drunk and was deranged when he stole 3 coats, got to the city knew now how, was found deranged in street and taken to the almshouse from thence to Moyamensing for trial. Thence to this place. Brought up by William Thorne between Haddonfield and Moorestown.
Has been a member of the Methodist society but never knew God ƒ?? very ignorant. Says he feels for his soul, many times but does not appear to feel much at present. Subsequently prays much.
Imprisoned rather through malice than for crime, seems docile and disposed to do right. Has no religious impressions, bought sausages of a woman, charged with taking more than was sold to her. Worked ordinarily for the woman, who kept tavern, and received them in payment for his work. Was in great distress at her entrance as is usual with some, but her tears are not occasioned by Godly sorrows, seems willing to hear ƒ?? but has little to say.
Not long out of prison, got married and soon after returned, a poor hopeless and miserable creature, weeps bitterly from an apprehension that his condition is remediless and such indeed it seems.
This man professed conversion and seems as happy as any creature could be, when first in this place. But returned in a few weeks, said it was impossible to get work, was turned out of every situation as all knew by his work that he had been in the penitentiary .
Can read German only, as ignorant and indifferent respecting a future world and the retributions of eternity as the beasts of the field.
Very ignorant and seems to have no sense of the evil of his crime, indifferent to religion and appears to have had no instruction whatever in relation to his soul.
Has never had a proper sense of sin nor correct views of the way of salvation although he says that himself and wife were Methodists and served the Lord, says he is not chargeable with the crime for which he suffers, but by the false oath of an enemy he is now in prison. Says A Hagaman Hole and was in Jail several times.
This individual was in the institution before for forgery and after 2 years received a pardon which took 5 years from the sentence, he has returned for larceny. Naturally strong mind seems to have some right views of religion but no heart to it. Denies the charge.
Confesses his guilt and is in extreme agony of mind. Wonders how he could be so far left to the depravity of his heart as to commit the crime. Cannot blame it to drink, is greatly distressed for his children and for the sin which has taken from them their only surviving parent. Is not enlightened on subject of religion.
Not in any degree hopeful, as regards religious impression or reform
Says he owns the grounds on which the prison stands and consequently the Prison. Perhaps deranged (May 3) is President of the U.S.
Seems not to have much sensibility, heart hardened by criminal and sensual indulgence.
An old offender, hoped he had reformed became a Drayman or Porter [[etc]] his story in part false. No religious impressions
Professes to have been innocent of the charge. Blames Evan 71. Evidently careless, hardened, and familiar with prison. Takes his condemnation quite philosophically. Jan 10th 1840 Tuined by the unfaithfulness of his wife, worked in Haddington. Sent 6 and 8 doll a week to his wife, found her on his return living with another man. Is the Mrs. McKinley to whose house Dr. Chaunce took the female, who was murdered in childbirth.
A very lively kind of young man, just married and separated by his sentence. Claims to be innocent, says his parents were possessed of considerable property in this city and that by means unknown, the city now has it in possession.
Has lived a vagrant and wretched life for 4 years past. Was once well off; was a captain of sloop and schooner and [[ ]] one in the coasting trade, has no sense of the importance of religion. In company with ƒ??71 and ƒ??72. Charges the crime upon ƒ??71. Says he was ignorant of the character of the others and had no participation in the crime.
Was contractor on a railroad and in a fight among Irishman, became alarmed for his life. Put on the clothes of another person to disguise himself and thus escape, brought them back next morning and was afterward arrested for stealing them. Through enmity, would not have been indicted in City ƒ?? no disposition to talk of religion. Member of Baptist church, thinks himself recovered from backsliding. Tricky and hypocrite
Father and mother profess religion, has not lived with them in several years, they are seeders (perhaps seceeders) No sense of religion at all.
No serious or religious impressions.
Is 19 years old and shows no indication of good ƒ?? very ignorant indeed.
An old sinner and long acquainted with prisons, not hopeful.
Careless and hardened
Has had some impressions but none of an effectual character.
Says he exchanged his own horse for one that was stolen and the thief absconding he was left to suffer. Never thought much of religion says today he purchased the hose at his own shop after having shod him. Was not allowed time to procure witnesses. His first emotions were revenge, he now finds them all gone and he gave all up into the hands of God and is resolved to attend to the salvation of his own soul. Some hope of him greatly increased 2 months before discharge.
Says he was once in Moyamensing where he became religious. Is now innocent of the charge. Bought a stolen watch.
No hopeful appearance whatever. Seemed hurt at my remark that he did not wish to see me, has been serious for some months, says he canƒ??t talk much has nothing to say for himself. Feels he is a sinner, prays to God as far as he has light seeks him would be glad to have me call and talk to him, though he canƒ??t say much to me.
Tells me he is 20 years old. Born in Chambersburg. No religious knowledge or impressions
All his statements disagree with those made to Mr. Wood. Says he has had serious thoughts but has no knowledge of a religious kind.
No sense of religion. Canƒ??t speak English. Donƒ??t care for the Bible.
No religious feeling, canƒ??t speak English.
Pleads not guilty. Utterly careless and ignorant says that he fell into his present condition by a spirit of officious meddling in things with which he had no real concern. Undertook to sell a cow for 2 men and sold it they standing by and receiving the money. Once accused of killing a man, proved an alibi. Says he had not a bad name, has a family, donƒ??t live with his wife.
No appearance of hopefulness, very ignorant and careless.
Denies any participation whatever in the guilt or the act. Is but 19 years old. See him again.
This poor creature is not a jot above idiocy, is a more proper subject of the almshouse than of the prison
A small boy. Seems like a smart and intelligent child, affirms his innocence and declares the burning of a mere barrack of straw to have burn occasioned accidentally, by playing with Loco Foco matches.
The case of this man excited great sensation during the past 6 months, he having occasioned the death of a female, by malpractice in an attempt to produce abortion. In a state of excitement bordering upon insanity, sent for Mr. Bacon. Earnestly desiring to be chained or otherwise confined to prevent him from committing violence upon himself. Visited him immediately after. He was in a state of considerable mental anguish on account of his family and from an apprehension of the loss of reason and consequent suicide. Complained of intense pressure on the occiput and a sensation of coldness and dropping in that region with horrid temptations to destroy himself. Said he wished yet to live for his familyƒ??s sake. Was unwilling to have it known that he had been a professor of religion. Could not endure to bring a stain upon, a cause that was dear to his heart. Though for the last 3 years he had lost sight of God. Clouds and darkness shrouded him from his sight. He deeply deplored that the hope of gain had lured him into a medical practice, which had unveiled to his view. The entire mass of corruption pervading the whole extent of this community (Philadelphia) In the bitterness of his spirit, intimated that if anyone unacquainted with the widespread of sensuality pervading the higher classes as well as lower, could just see what comes under the observation of some. They would be horror struck at the vast amount and at the methods adopted to conceal it. He looked back upon it with loathing and abhorrence and would now prefer the deepest poverty to a participation in its gains. After long period of restless opposition to Gods spirit and convictions of conscience it is hoped he is brought to submit at the feet of Jesus and after some months of cheering evidence of the fact was Discharged by pardon Nov. 5th 1841 and restored to the bosom of a family he deeply loves.
Not disposed to be communicative confessed however that his life for some few years had been bad.
Hardened Indifferent, seems careless and as though he had no character to lose and no feeling on which to operate. By solitary vice became deranged continued so a year
Found drunk in a cellar did not mean to steal. Never stole in his life. Very fond of music, tried to acquire a knowledge of it. No appearance of penitence.
Exceedingly stupid and ignorant. Unconscious of the greatness of his guilt, regards it as small matter.
Son of a Methodist minister. Discharged April 14th returned here in 4 weeks. My former views confirmed. Assets entire innocence. Bought some venison. Can prove it but was denied the opportunity. Offered bail and was refused [[etc]] Did not and does not yet know it was stolen. The prosecutor swore that he had lost beef.
Irish Catholic. 1 conviction for three months in Moyamensing ƒ?? so sense of sin. Education neglected ƒ?? early habits bad. Given to lying. A true son of Holy Mother.
Says he was of the Horse Guards of Napoleon the Emperor of the French, was not guilty of stealing and is unjustly confined.
Has very slight sense of the guilt of crime. No sense of religion. Quite careless and hopeless. Sold himself to the Devil.
Seems to have no sense of the evil of sin. Education neglected, early habits bad. Sold himself to the Devil.
A young man hastening on to Destruction no sense of criminality, denies the crime yet could not avoid criminating himself by an incautious word. Mother a Methodist. To the question had you never serious impressions was silent, would not reply. Afterward exhibited anger against the court. Spoke of 102 and 103 as condemned without trial or after being cleared.
Not disposed to confess his crime but guilty and hardened.
Has no sense of guilt. Kelley, the man who was killed came to the house of a neighbor for refuge from the fury of a drunken husband, found her escaped, drew a new dagger with which he swore he meant to take her life. Rox tried to get it from him, was attacked and wounded several times, found his life in danger, struck him with a club of which he died. (Came first to Roxƒ??s house to find his wife and learned she was at this neighbors)
Father and mother dead. Stammers very badly. The only one of the recent convicts that wept. Did not know that [[searct]] vice was a sin against God ƒ?? was softened greatly when I told him my errand. July Infirmary very anxious for his souls salvation.
Engaged with Julia Wilt (below) in a barbarous robbery. In which a mans hand was cut off. Seems hardened and senseless. Mind subject to erotic enervation.
Hopes for happiness not here but in heaven because God is all sufficient. Sunk into debased and brutal vice and hardness of soul. Has been subsequently the subject of deep mental anguish on account of her sins and now professes a hope in the merits of Christ.
Irish Catholic. Was drunk when the affair took place. A cap was given to him and being found in his possession was condemned. Denies having stolen it.
An Irishman smart and intelligent. But evidently lost to hope. He seems to have decided upon crime as his course.
Appears to be 50 years old or nearly so and is evidently entirely unconcerned for the interest of the soul. Hardened but little mind no energy of character
Apprentice to Mr. Duffy. If I rightly remember, stole when with him and was turned off before his time was out. Apparently hopeless.
Altogether innocent, slept in bed with the man who was robbed, who swore falsely against him. Says if the man was robbed which he seems to doubt, he could not have done it, being asleep beside him
Left here Feb 17th 1839 remained out only 4 months. Seemed greatly ashamed when recognized by me. Denied being guilty on this charge though guilty before. Cannot read would not learn before in prison ƒ?? no desire to make any effort.
Served two years at printing in this city. Master died. Shifted about, learned idle habits, fell into bad company, was 6 months in Moyamensing, says in this matter, he was with a young man to whom he had lent 5 dollars, was promised his watch went with him to his mothers house, the young man then refused. He wrested it from him and the watchman being called- he threw it upon the pavement. Feels tender but is a stranger to religious impressions. Cries, spirit broken.
Never learned or wrought at any business began to steal at 13 years old ƒ?? has lived so ever since. Says he has no expectation of any change. Will have been 17 years in prison when this sentence expired. Was out only 7 months from this place and is back again. He has given up all desire to change, prays when in prison. Never thinks of it when out.
A hoary headed rogue says he was in Walnut Street 14 years since. After which refrained from illicit practices until now, engaged in selling counterfeit money. Knew something of Charles Johnson since he left prison. He passed off a 5 dollar note altered to five hundred, has gone on to Baltimore. Some tenderness of feeling but no sense of guilt.
Has lived in prostitution, once in Moyamensing. Shows no symptoms of repentance
Parents died when he was very young under the care of a Grandmother from whom he ran away at 12 ƒ?? has been since at New York lived on the Hudson above West Point. Wandering and idle habits from early life. Oct. 13th Sun called for me to visit him, deeply concerned See journal
Came into the penitentiary diseased with Scrofula badly. Seems of a mild turn and under the fear that his life will end here before his term expires, which seems probable. Seemed anxious for a Bible
Professes to be innocent seems as usual unhappy. Never at school utterly ignorant early habits idle and depraved
Wishes to appear innocent, tells a blundering tale of both convictions. Wants prayed book.
Came in Saturday July 27th 1839 Diseased and filthy. No promise of good feeling. No desire to learn to read ƒ?? careless. Mar 23 In the infirmary in a critical condition and in a stupor that prevents much intercourse either cannot understand or will not converse
